hey guys what's up um some of my
podcasts are on the profound side some
are on the shallow side somewhere on the
edgy side some are a little bit fun a
little bit of self-parody or
self-indulgence this is addressed
instead to what I think of as a
pragmatic question and my pragmatic
videos have been some of the most deeply
appreciated but that I mean the videos
where I talk through what you actually
say in a certain situation how you
actually handle people when you're being
confronted by people who are hostile to
veganism when you're confronted with
certain types of questions when people
demand proof that veganism can cure
cancer or whatever the controversy of
the moment is people may demand proof
that it's possible to be healthy on a
vegan diet that that is sort of the
realm of pragmatic discussion of
veganism and even though I mean in some
ways it's a little bit shallow I know
that people really appreciate it because
so many of us struggle alone for years
to deal with those situations and also
most of us struggle without preparation
most of us you know we find ourselves
suddenly confronted by a boss or a
co-worker and not you know obviously
without having a script or or what have
you I think that one of the most
distorting aspects of this puzzle is
that people tend to think of the world
in terms of pro vegan and aunty Feakins
and if you spend your time on the
internet increasingly that's the way the
world will seem to be around you but
it's not the case the vast majority of
the world's population are neither prone
or aunty they've simply never thought
about veganism or even if they have they
certainly haven't thought about veganism
in my terms now saying my terms as a big
shortcut here there are a lot of
different ways to present veganism and
to conceptualising thing about veganism
you can think about it in terms of
puppies are cute pigs are cute therefore
don't eat pigs because you wouldn't eat
puppies many people approach it in that
way I think that's a tremendously week
way to present their grievances veganism
is outsiders but you know you can try it
there's no harm in trying you may enjoy
half
that discussion with people but after
you've done in a few dozen times you
know you may you may find some of the
discussion on my own channel rewarding
because it gives you other approaches
you could approach veganism by
discussing theory of evolution and
whether or not you know the alignment of
our teeth the nature of our jaw and our
digestive organs is somehow you know
structurally suited to veganism that
were evolved to be vegan rather than
omnivores are carnivores you may find
that intellectually stimulating you may
find that rewarding I do not think it's
an effective way to approach the matter
and again there's no harm you know go
ahead in your conversations with your
friends co-workers boss you know knock
yourself out and after you've done it a
few dozen times you may come to this
channel and take some interest in the
reflections have to offer you know if
not that's cool too but as I say this
whole channel is is kind of advanced
veganism it's sort of for people who've
already dealt with the preliminary
frustrations and are really interested
in questions of effective activism
organization and dare I say saving the
saving the world what uh what a precious
phrase hey i like i like that i like the
verb save much more than I like the verb
abolish you know to digress for a moment
here it's so easy to talk about
abolishing the meat industry it's so
easy I would abolition it's much more
difficult to talk about what that means
step by step in practice so saving the
world even though it may sound a bit
childish to me actually that's that's
less silly than just talking about
abolishing everything we disagree we had
um anyway so I've mentioned the
different approaches that I don't do one
of the paradigms I'm famous for is the
paradigm of comparing veganism to
cigarette smoking now I it's somebody
else must have done it before me it's so
obvious but I admit I did invent that
you know within my own life I nobody
else ever told that to me I've never
seen or read any when using that
comparison but it's so obvious there
must be other animal rights activists
have used it at least briefly at least
in passing so even if you haven't heard
it before well I'm votes you tell a
story of how I just met
my chinese teacher the woman is my main
teacher of my classes here and i
explained via doesn't her using this
parable of cigarette smoking so i sat
down with my chinese teacher we've
talked quite a lot i'm doing four hours
of class per day five days per week
tremendously intense language course
here and i think we're gonna spend more
time recording videos in the internet
because he oh he burned out so I can do
with my brain but I'm not in class or
study Chinese characters in a case um i
sat down with her and she was filling
out a form about me she had to ask me
series of questions and she said well
what are your interests or hobbies I
said well you know veganism you know
it's the truth I mean what am I gonna
lie I'm not going to tell you that I
play volleyball you know no my main
interest in hobby you know in that sense
is veganism so I explained to her what
veganism was she didn't know she never
heard the word before and even when i
use the Chinese word she was confused
about it she didn't know okay but then
the next thing I said to her was you
know vegan is not just a type of food
you know it's it's a political struggle
now I use the word struggle because I'm
talking to a mainland Chinese person and
in Chinese they use the word struggle
very very often for different political
periods of time where we might use
movement you know political movement
they would often say political struggle
and she's very surprised that I said
that now here in China to a greater
extent than in democratic countries many
people just do not think about politics
and do not think politically even though
of course politics is in the newspaper
constantly but many of the people around
you they think about politics as little
as you or I might think about plumbing
as long as the plumbing works we don't
think about it if somebody asks you oh
gee this building has great plumbing who
did the plumbing who was the plumber who
was the engineer who designed the
plummet you don't know you never will
you never paid attention you know
somebody did it some human hands set it
up if there's a disaster if suddenly the
pipes burst or rupture
disaster with the plumbing suddenly
you're interested suddenly you want to
know who did it who's responsible
suddenly you know with plumbing is a big
deal you so in the same way when there's
a disaster hear people suddenly pay
attention to politics in the government
but many people not all I mean I spend
my time around of course the minority of
people who who really enjoy thinking
about politics including of course my
own university professors but many
people who came here just do not think
politically so she had already two
surprises one she'd never heard of
veganism before and two she'd never
thought of this as a political issue now
obviously this conversation couldn't
have even gotten to of this productive
point if I had the attitude of either
you're with us or against us have had
the attitude that if you're not pro v
can your auntie peak an hour or
something like this I was really having
a sort of gentle approach of recognizing
this was this person's first
introduction of the concept so she asked
you know astounded in what sense could
veganism be a political struggle she's
just thinking thinking of it as a food
preference that's you know that's what
she thinks it is and what I said to her
was using this parallelism that I've
explained so many times in my youtube
channel that really is so useful in in
life such in daily life situations I
said to her everyone knows that
cigarettes are bad for your health 100
years in the future will people still
smoke cigarettes now obviously I'm
speaking to someone whose ability in
English is very limited so speaking in a
very simple way but that this is the way
I broke it down for and she was you know
she really thought about this she didn't
really answer with words but you can see
on the looker face that she this was
also a stunning state nor said if we
want to you know get rid of cigarettes
in the next one you want if we want
everyone to stop smoking cigarettes that
is a political struggle for just one
person to quit smoking cigarettes is not
political but for everyone to quit
smoking cigarettes is political
and then I said to her I don't just want
to stop eating pigs I want you to stop
eating pigs I want him to stop eating
pigs I want her to stop any pics I want
everyone to stop eating pigs and it's
for that reason that veganism is a
political struggle now I know some of
you I'm not talking to a child talking
to an adult woman but she's someone who
speaks English as a Second Language and
doesn't speak English very well and this
was a you know patient and sort of
carrying his reduction to the basic
concept of veganism and this argument
again she didn't say much at this point
she was surgery saying oh you know
really she was just she just found it
really interesting surprises a totally
new paradigm for a totally new set of
thoughts and the final thing I said to
her then finishing the parallel with
cigarette smoking was I said to her tell
me 100 years from now will people still
eat pigs and too many Chinese people
this is a shocking idea because all
their ancestors for more than 1,000
years for more than 3,000 years they've
always eaten pigs here but of course now
we know that pigs are bad for you the
same way we know cigarettes are bad for
you so this opens up a question right
now obviously this didn't deal with the
agony of the animals this didn't deal
with the ecology this didn't deal with
anything else it's possible that in the
next two months I'm going to talk to
this teacher more of a reason it's
possible we'll never talk about it again
but I mean she didn't ask for one hour
lecture this is a very brief
non-confrontational introduction to the
long game of veganism because from my
perspective that's what we're playing
for if you're new to my channel if
you're a new subscriber please go and
see my eight-minute video called on
community many of my videos are 40
minutes long or more than an hour long
but that eight-minute video gives you a
sense of what my aspirations are and I
think those are the aspirations you need
to share with people when you're first
introducing them to the concept of
veganism and you do not need to share
with them the agony of how hard it is to
be a vegan you do not need to share with
them your own sense of did
ness or frustration are being persecuted
even though that may be a very real part
of your life thank you all for listening
guys hit me up sakamaki out a banana
tree I'm a p.i.m.p